documentation/dsls/DSL:-AshArchival.Resource.md, before:

<!--
This file was generated by Spark. Do not edit it by hand.
-->
# DSL: AshArchival.Resource

Configures a resource to be archived instead of destroyed for all destroy actions.

For more information, see [Archival](/documentation/topics/archival.md)


## archive
A section for configuring how archival is configured for a resource.






### Options

| Name | Type | Default | Docs |
|------|------|---------|------|
| [`attribute`](#archive-attribute){: #archive-attribute } | `atom` | `:archived_at` | The attribute in which to store the archival flag (the current datetime). |
| [`exclude_read_actions`](#archive-exclude_read_actions){: #archive-exclude_read_actions } | `atom \| list(atom)` | `[]` | A read action or actions that should show archived items. They will not get the automatic `is_nil(archived_at)` filter. |
| [`exclude_destroy_actions`](#archive-exclude_destroy_actions){: #archive-exclude_destroy_actions } | `atom \| list(atom)` | `[]` | A destroy action or actions that should *not* archive, but instead be left alone. This allows for having a destroy *or* archive pattern. |
| [`archive_related`](#archive-archive_related){: #archive-archive_related } | `list(atom)` | `[]` | A list of relationships that should have all related items archived when this is archived. Notifications are not sent for this operation. |







<style type="text/css">.spark-required::after { content: "*"; color: red !important; }</style>

Commit message:

improvement: support `base_filter? true` option
docs: docs overhaul

documentation/dsls/DSL:-AshArchival.Resource.md, after:

<!--
This file was generated by Spark. Do not edit it by hand.
-->
# DSL: AshArchival.Resource

Configures a resource to be archived instead of destroyed for all destroy actions.

For more information, see [the getting started guide](/documentation/tutorials/get-started-with-ash-archival.md)


## archive
A section for configuring how archival is configured for a resource.






### Options

| Name | Type | Default | Docs |
|------|------|---------|------|
| [`attribute`](#archive-attribute){: #archive-attribute } | `atom` | `:archived_at` | The attribute in which to store the archival flag (the current datetime). |
| [`base_filter?`](#archive-base_filter?){: #archive-base_filter? } | `atom` | `false` | Whether or not a base filter exists that applies the `is_nil(archived_at)` rule. |
| [`exclude_read_actions`](#archive-exclude_read_actions){: #archive-exclude_read_actions } | `atom \| list(atom)` | `[]` | A read action or actions that should show archived items. They will not get the automatic `is_nil(archived_at)` filter. |
| [`exclude_destroy_actions`](#archive-exclude_destroy_actions){: #archive-exclude_destroy_actions } | `atom \| list(atom)` | `[]` | A destroy action or actions that should *not* archive, but instead be left alone. This allows for having a destroy *or* archive pattern. |
| [`archive_related`](#archive-archive_related){: #archive-archive_related } | `list(atom)` | `[]` | A list of relationships that should have all related items archived when this is archived. Notifications are not sent for this operation. |







<style type="text/css">.spark-required::after { content: "*"; color: red !important; }</style>
